docs(overlay): add overlay styling topic (#1362)
IgniteUI/igniteui-docfx: en/components/overlay_styling.md

_keywords: Ignite UI for Angular, Angular Overlay Service, Angular UI controls, Overlay Service, View Encapsulation Example, Sass scoped styles in Angular, web widgets, UI widgets, Angular, Native Angular Components Suite, Native Angular Controls, Native Angular Components Library
---

## Introduction
<p class="highlight">

[`IgxOverlayService`](overlay_main.md) is used to display content above some content or the whole page. A lot of `Ignite UI for Angular` components make use of the overlay - [Drop Down](drop_down.md), [Combo](combo.md), [Date Picker](date_picker.md) - so it is important to understand how the overlay displays content.
To show the content above other elements, the overlay moves it into a special outlet container (attached at the end of the document's body, by default). This behavior can lead to specific CSS rules (e.g. hierarchically scoped CSS) to not work as expected.
</p>
<div class="divider--half"></div>

## Styling Components

In order to better understand how the overlay affects component styling, let's take a look at some common examples.

> One of the components that makes use of the overlay is the [`IgxDropDown`](drop_down.md). The overlay displays the drop-down's list of items in an overlay container. This container is, by default, positioned at the end of the document's body.

Reviewer: I'd add something like:
"One of the most common uses - defining a global theme for your app globally - is generally unaffected by the overlay outlets and their position in the DOM tree.
Where issues may appear is when themes are [scoped to specific container](#scoped-rules)."
And merge the (shorter) global styles into the intro

---
title: Overlay Styling
_description: A detailed walkthrough that explains how to properly apply and scope styles to elements that are displayed using the IgniteUI for Angular Overlay Service.
_keywords: Ignite UI for Angular, Angular Overlay Service, Angular UI controls, Overlay Service, View Encapsulation Example, Sass scoped styles in Angular, web widgets, UI widgets, Angular, Native Angular Components Suite, Native Angular Controls, Native Angular Components Library
---

## Introduction
<p class="highlight">

[`IgxOverlayService`](overlay_main.md) dynamically inserts elements in the DOM. In this topic, we'll go over styling those elements (and components that use the overlay).
</p>
<div class="divider--half"></div>

## Premise

> Let's review the following example - we want to display two [`igx-drop-down`](drop_down.md) components in one view. We want one of them to be styled with a custom theme and the other to use the default theme.

Reviewer: I feel like this premise needs to be a more concise as to not distract from the overlay-specific stuff.
A single drop down (or better yet something without content projection like a combo) should be enough to provide a guide for basic styling. The main goal is to explain the effects of the service moving content on the styles.

_Also scoping the modal style should be a more advanced use - there's a big caviat that should be explained in the main topic about using modal with outlet and the issues that can have with viewport-altering CSS properties._

This is one of the few topics that probably deserve a custom diagram explaining what's going where.

        {{ item.name }}
    </igx-drop-down-item>
</igx-drop-down>
```

In our `overlay-styling.component.ts`, in addition to the `items` array we want to show, we define that our component should expose its `Host` `ElementRef` inside of the constructor:

```typescript
// overlay-styling.component.ts
@Component({
    selector: "app-overlay-styling",
    styleUrls: ["overlay-styling.component.scss"],
    templateUrl: "overlay-styling.component.html"
})
export class OverlayStylingComponent {
    public items = [
        {
            name: "Group 1",
            header: true,
            id: 1
        }, { name: "Option 1", id: 100 }, { name: "Option 2", id: 101 }, { name: "Option 3", id: 102 },
        {
            name: "Group 2",
            header: true,
            id: 2
        }, { name: "Option 1", id: 200 }, { name: "Option 2", id: 201 }, { name: "Option 3", id: 202 }
    ];

    constructor(public element: ElementRef) {
    }
}
```

## Styling

### Including Styles

In order to use the [IgniteUI Theming Library](themes/index.md), we must first import the theme `index` file in our global styles:

```scss
@import '~igniteui-angular/lib/core/styles/themes/index';
...
```

> Now we can make use of all of the functions exposed by the IgniteUI theme engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can make use of all of the functions exposed by the Ignite UI for Angular theme engine.
```

```scss
$red: #ac4365;
$purple: #5434b8;

$my-palette: igx-palette($primary: $red, $secondary: $purple);
```

### Defining themes

We can now define the theme using our palette. In the example, we are using `igx-drop-down`, so we need to use [`igx-drop-down-theme`]({environment:sassApiUrl}/index.html#function-igx-drop-down-theme) to generate a theme for the component:

```scss
$my-drop-down-theme: igx-drop-down-theme(
    $palette: $my-palette
);
```
You can read more about styling the drop-down [here](drop_down.md#styling)

In order to style the Overlay's modal background, we also use [`igx-overlay-theme`]({environment:sassApiUrl}/index.html#function-igx-overlay-theme):

```scss
$background-purple: #5443b84a;

$my-overlay-theme: igx-overlay-theme(
    $background-color: $background-purple
);
```

### Applying the themes

The easiest way to apply our theme is to `@include` the [`igx-drop-down`]({environment:sassApiUrl}/index.html#mixin-igx-drop-down) and [`igx-overlay`]({environment:sassApiUrl}/index.html#mixin-igx-overlay) mixins in our global styles file (typically `styles.scss`):

```scss
@include igx-overlay($my-overlay-theme)
@include igx-drop-down($my-drop-down-theme)
```

> This will apply our custom themes to **all** instances of Drop Downs and to **all** modal overlays, regardless of where they are spawned from.

Reviewer: 👍

> ### Scoping Drop Down Theme

Reviewer: Drop down should probably be left out, since this applies to everything? And scoping and emulated encapsulation are not the same thing, btw.
This should can be "Scoped component themes and view encapsulation" or something.

> In order to better explain how the theme is applied to the drop-down and its items, we need to first take some time to explain how Angular's [ViewEncapsulation](https://angular.io/guide/component-styles#view-encapsulation) works. `ViewEncapsulation` takes care of our styles being scoped to a certain part (component) of our application. As stated in the official Angular documentation, we can define what `ViewEncapsulation` is used by our component. For this example, we'll discuss the default one - `ViewEncapsulation.Emulated`.

Reviewer: Parts of this, along with the next bit about how projected items pick up styles even when moved by the service should likely be a section on it's own, **but** only after the main explanation. Maybe start with the more basic styling option: `.container { @include igx-drop-down($my-drop-down-theme) }` as that will have the same problem.

If you want to make it guide-like, merge the outlet explanation here w/ the usual `:host { ::ng-deep { } }` wrap + `outlet` to achieve the expected encapsulation.
